---
cid: 60
title: Multilingual and I18N
date: 2016-06-12
---

All the languages files are in the `config/locales/` folder.

There should be a sample file named `en.yml` there. All the language files use the YAML format.

Take the “Home” wording as example. We can put the following code in the `en.yml` file and then access it again with the translate method, or t as alias.

~~~
en:
  home: "Home"
~~~

Using the locale in view:

~~~
<li><%= link_to translate('home'), root_path %></li>
~~~

Or we can have better organization by grouping the locales. This ensures we do not create conflicts with the same keys. Now in the `en.yml` file.

~~~
en:
  nav:
    home: "Home"
~~~

And the view becomes:

<li><%= link_to translate('nav.home'), root_path %></li>
By grouping the locales, it ensures we do not create conflicts with the same keys.
And typing the `translate()` method every time can be annoying. That’s why rails comes with an alias `t()`:

~~~
<li><%= link_to t('nav.home'), root_path %></li>
~~~

## Common Locales Setting

By default, the locale files comes with empty setting (Ignoring that hello world example). If you need some common local settings such as date and time. You can find it in [this repo](https://github.com/svenfuchs/rails-i18n).

For date/time locals, please use `localize` method, or `l`, instead of the `translate`.

## Adding chinese
How about adding the Chinese supports?

Create a new file named `zh-TW.yml` under the folder `config/locales/`.
Put the following content into the file.

~~~
zh-TW:
 nav:
   home: "首頁"
~~~

## Setting the default local to Chinese.

1. Create a new file named locale.rb under the `config/initializers/` folder.
2. Put the following ruby code in the file. I18n.default_locale = "zh-TW"
3. Restart the server.

Note: “zh-TW” or “zh-HK” is for Traditional Chinese. And “zh-CN” is for Simplified Chinese.

Before moving advance, let’s complete the navigation locale:

~~~
zh-TW:
  nav:
    home: "首頁"
    login: "登入"
    logout: "登出"
    signup: "成為用戶"
~~~

And make sure we updated the view to use the locale setting. In the `application.html.erb` file:

~~~
<nav>
  <ul>
    <li><%= link_to t('nav.home'), root_path %></li>
    <% if user_signed_in? %>
      <li><%= link_to "#{t('nav.logout')} (#{current_user.email})", destroy_user_session_path, :method => :delete %></li>
    <% else %>
      <li><%= link_to t('nav.login'), new_user_session_path  %></li>
      <li><%= link_to t('nav.signup'), new_user_registration_path  %></li>
    <% end %>
  </ul>
</nav>
~~~

## Switching locale

How about switching the locale?

Getting locale option from params.

In the `application_controller.rb` file:

~~~
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  protect_from_forgery

  before_filter :set_locale

  def set_locale
    I18n.locale = params[:locale] || I18n.default_locale
  end
end
~~~

Or

~~~
def set_locale
  if params[:locale].in? %W(en zh-TW)
    I18n.locale = params[:locale]
  end
end
~~~

And now, we can access different with the params query: `http://0.0.0.0:3000/?locale=en`.

Automatically appending the locale params to URL.

Rails comes with a `default_url_options` that is the default query string and values that will be attached in the URL.

We can override the `default_url_options`. Add the following method in the `application_controller.rb` file.

~~~
def default_url_options
  { locale: I18n.locale }
end
~~~

This only applies to URL which is generated by rails, such as `root_path`. Manually typing the URL will not get the `default_url_options` attached.

And then we need the UI to switch. Since we want the language available everywhere, put it in the `applicotian.html.erb` file.

~~~
<a href='?locale=zh-TW'>中</a> | <a href='?locale=en'>EN</a>
~~~

For more detail, please check [I18n guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/i18n.html).